# Resolutions

| Date + Link | Contents |
|---|---|
|[2024-11-08](./2024-10-04/README.md#location-task-force-proposal)|RESOLVED: Proposal to form a Geosocial Task Force. (Next steps: Mailing list post about its formation etc).|
|[see above](./2024-10-04/README.md)|RESOLVED: Aim to adopt the SocialCG Charter on the December call. [(not in the minutes:) Next steps: work async until dec on the [potential-charters repo](https://github.com/swicg/potential-charters/pulls)]|
|[see above](./2024-10-04/README.md)|RESOLVED: Evan and Tantek as HTML Discovery TF co-chairs. [(not in the minutes:) next steps: follow up on [current Discovery draft on-list](https://lists.w3.org/Archives/Public/public-swicg/2024Nov/0041.html)) ]|
|[see above](./2024-10-04/README.md)|RESOLVED: Start Group TF with a and Evan as co-leads [next steps?]|
|[2024-10-04](./2024-10-04/README.md)|accept [PR #1](https://github.com/swicg/potential-charters/pull/1) as the basis for collaboration on building a CG charter|
|see above|Accept [PR#4](https://github.com/swicg/potential-charters/pull/4) to begin the collaboration on a staging process for CG/WG workflows (conditional on Tantek and Emelia's change requests).|
|[2024-09-06](./2024-09-06/README.md)|host Social Web Interoperability & Data Portability TPAC session|
|see above|End-to-End-Encryption (E2EE) TPAC session.|
|see above|End-to-End-Encryption (E2EE) TPAC session.|
|see above|Submit a pull request for a SocialCG breakout session|
|see above|SocialCG starts up a Website Taskforce to update activitypub.rocks and as2.rocks (only). Bandwidth permitting. And set up a process for future updates.|
|see above|Establish a trust and safety task force, with a report as only deliverable for now, with more TBD.|
|[2024-08-02](https://github.com/swicg/meetings/tree/main/2024-08-02#process-question--needs-fep-handling)|streamline the use of `FEP needed` tag on AP+AS github issues using [GH](https://github.com/w3c/activitypub/commit/813db27250521d89449b876658a614b7cde349ba) [automations](https://github.com/w3c/activitystreams/commit/6880c92381cd5e3518651a1135ed819ef4828368)|
|[see above](./2024-08-02/README.md#issue-triage---issues-requiring-community-input)|Various Errata Approvals|
|[see above](./2024-08-02/README.md#new-task-force-to-clarify-discovery-mechanics)|We [, the CG,] prefer the use of `rel=author` for identifying authors of web resources.|
|[see above](./2024-08-02/README.md#new-task-force-to-clarify-discovery-mechanics)|`rel=author` + `type=application/activity+json` means that the `href` supports ActivityPub discovery and following (modulo open question about which specific discovery mechanisms)|
|[see above](./2024-08-02/README.md#new-task-force-to-clarify-discovery-mechanics)|Open a task force to focus on a discovery of ActivityPub actors and objects from HTML.|
|[2024-06-07](https://github.com/swicg/meetings/tree/main/2024-05-07#tf-reports)|Publish the [ActivityPub HTTP Signatures profile](https://swicg.github.io/activitypub-http-signature/) as a CG Final report.|
|[2024-06-07](https://github.com/swicg/meetings/tree/main/2024-05-07#tf-reports)|The SocialCG create a next-generation profile of ActivityPub and HTTP Message Signatures including backwards-compatibility mode. call for volunteers to edit and write the report ongoing.|
|[2024-06-07](https://github.com/swicg/meetings/tree/main/2024-05-07#tf-reports)|Publish the [ActivityPub WebFinger profile](https://swicg.github.io/activitypub-webfinger/) as a CG Final report. Wind down WebFinger TF (until further use cases etc)|
|[2023-04-05](./2024-04-05/README.md#forum-and-link-sharing-task-force)|Creation of a CG Forum and link-sharing task force (/ Threadiverse TF)|
|[2024-03-01](https://www.w3.org/2024/03/01-social-minutes.html#r01)|publish version 1.11 of Activity Streams 2.0 context document based on current state of the context document.|
|[2023-12-15](https://github.com/swicg/meetings/tree/main/2023-12-15#topic-extensions-policy)|The SocialCG intends to publish the Extension policy at https://swicg.github.io/extensions-policy/ and solicits final round of feedback from the Activity Streams 2.0 community.|
|[2023-12-15](https://github.com/swicg/meetings/tree/main/2023-12-15#topic-issue-processing)|AP Errata PRs 440, 441, 545, 482|
|[2023-11-17](https://github.com/swicg/meetings/tree/main/2023-11-17#notes)|approve errata for AP issues 297, 376, 395; incorporate consensually-approved errata to date into Editor's Draft|
|[2023-09-13](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/13-socialweb-test-suite-minutes.html#ResolutionSummary)|create a Testing Task Force within the SocialCG with bumblefudge as Task Force Lead|
|[see above](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/13-social-minutes.html)|UNOFFICIAL: consider https://w3c.github.io/activitypub/data-portability-report.html as an input document for a Portability Task Force; convener of said still sought|
|[2023-09-12](https://www.w3.org/2023/09/12-social-minutes.html#ResolutionSummary)|use https://w3c.github.io/activitystreams/draft-extensions-policy.html as a draft of a report for an extensions policy for SocialCG|
|[2021-04-23](https://www.w3.org/2021/04/23-social-minutes.html#t03)|This is currently the primary issue tracker for SWICG: https://github.com/swicg/general/issues/|
|[2021-01-15](https://www.w3.org/2021/01/15-social-minutes.html#ResolutionSummary)|the remit of the Policy Group is primarily to liase with existing digital/tech political lobbying groups to bring awareness of relevant standards and W3C recommendations which can then be relayed at the right times and in the right places to politicians and policy makers. As part of this, the Policy Group may organise events, briefings, draft documentation, proposals, or open letters which can be co-signed by the SocialCG.|
|see above|the Policy group can use its best judgement to decide which relevant groups to reach out to in its efforts|
|see above|the Policy Group establishes a regular schedule to update the wider SocialCG with anything new.|
|see above|the Policy Group will coordinate activities publicly on the SocialHub forum. ( See here: https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/c/meeting/fediverse-policy/59 )|
|[2021-01-09](https://www.w3.org/2021/01/09-social-minutes.html#t01)|Make @rhiaro / Amy Guy co-chair of the SocialCG|
|[see above](https://www.w3.org/2021/01/09-social-minutes.html#t02)|The SocialCG should support the FEP (Fediverse Enhancement Proposal) process as a way of documenting extensions to the fediverse and encourage bringing FEP proposals for discussion to the SocialCG.|
|[2020-11-07](https://www.w3.org/2020/11/07-social-minutes.html#ResolutionSummary)|we accept the alsoKnownAs definition in the DID Core spec ("This relationship is a statement that the subject of this identifier is also identified by one or more other identifiers. ") as a starting point that can be iterated on with the participation of both the DID and SocialCG communities|
|[see above](https://www.w3.org/2020/11/07-social-minutes.html#ResolutionSummary)|we merge PR 512 on the AS2 namespace to add alsoKnownAs to the jsonld context, and point to the human readable normative definition in DID Core|
|[2020-04-25](https://www.w3.org/2020/04/25-social-minutes.html#ResolutionSummary)|Meetings happen second saturday of every month at 4pm UTC, and are announced/scheduled by community members on the SocialHub forum|
|[2019-10-23](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2019-10-23)|Welcome as co-chair, Nightpool!|
|[2019-10-09](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2019-10-09/minutes)|Continue bi-weekly (every second week) meetings of the SocialCG for the interim|
|see above|Continue with rotation between wednesday and saturday meetings, with next meeting occuring on October 26th|
|see above|Launch socialhub.activitypub.rocks as soon as possible (hellekin: it's online :) )|
|[2019-09-11](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2019-09-11/minutes)|Redirect socialhub.activitypub.rocks to the Discourse server for discussing ActivityPub-specific needs, use that as a more asynchronous communication platform for discussing AP topics, occasionally bringing them back to the SocialCG|
|[2018-09-12](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2018-09-12/minutes)|reschedule teleconferences to monthly meeting on the 2nd Wednesday of the month|
|see above|Accept https://github.com/w3c/activitystreams/commit/94a2dfad623a663dd206f4de2505c1c75c54f84e to close issue #459|
|[2018-07-18](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2018-07-18/minutes)|The CG will maintain an editors' draft of the AS2 document, applying the editorial changes listed in the ERRATA document|
|[2018-06-06](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2018-06-06/minutes)|the CG will maintain an "editor's draft" of AS2, applying only the existing errata changes to the final REC version of AS2|
|[2018-02-14](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2018-02-14/minutes)|RESOLVED (pending acceptance from jasnell): Discuss and curate ActivityStreams extensions in the ActivityStreams git(hub) repository, with normal issues / PRs, etc|
|[20187-10-11](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2017-10-11/minutes)|Resolve https://github.com/w3c/activitypub/issues/239 by removing mediaUpload and specified behavior from ActivityPub spec|
|[2017-08-02](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2017-08-02/minutes)|Switch to biweekly metings for SocialCG (next meeting starting on 08-16-2017)|
|[2017-06-21](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2017-06-21/minutes)|Add a Tag type (to capture the most common type of tags, and distinguish from Mention/etc)|
|[2017-06-07](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2017-06-07/minutes)|informal proposal: e2e is important but we don't have the expertise / experience to do it right now, we're interested in hearing more research about it, but we don't have the bandwidth to make it take up our primary work right now|
|see above|Create an activitypub-extensions repo under the SWICG GitHub org in order to discuss AP extensions. Move existing "postponed (revisit in future effort)" discussions there. Create a separate repository if we want to actually write out some spec text for an extension.|
|see above|Use https://www.w3.org/wiki/ActivityPub_extensions as the directory for extensions that links to them wherever authors want to write them up (github repo, wiki, personal site), and then use github issues for issue discussions.|
|[2017-05-31](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SocialCG/2017-05-31/minutes)|Accept majority of straw poll as SocialCG for group shortname.|
|[2017-05-05](https://www.w3.org/wiki/SWICG/2017-05-05/minutes#Summary_of_Resolutions)|Would like to extend the Social Web WG so there's time to update ActivityPub, to take into account currently exciting projects|
