# August SocialCG Meeting 2025-08-01

SocialCG on Fedi: https://w3c.social/@socialcg

Archived: __

## Present

* Dmitri Zagidulin
* Ted Thibodeau Jr (he/him) (OpenLinkSw.com) // GitHub:[@TallTed](https://github.com/TallTed) // Mastodon:[@TallTed](https://mastodon.social/@TallTed)
* Darius Kazemi (https://friend.camp/@darius)
* Ryan Barrett (snarfed.org)
* Mike Waggoner (herebox.org)
* Lisa Dusseault (@lisarue@mastodon.geekery.org)
* bumblefudge


## Agenda

1. IP Protection Note Reminder:
    - Anyone can participate in these calls. However, all substantive contributors to any CG Work Items must be members of the CG with full IPR agreements signed. https://www.w3.org/community/socialcg/join
    - To contribute to Work Items: ensure you have a W3 account: https://www.w3.org/accounts/request, and sign the W3C Community Contributor License Agreement (CLA): https://www.w3.org/community/about/agreements/cla/
2. Introductions & Re-Introductions
3. Community Announcements 
4. Task Force Updates
5. Charter updates if relevant.


## Minutes

### Announcements

FediCon in progress (Evan, Johannes and others are there) https://fedicon.ca/


### TF Updates

Mike W (geosocial): steadily moving forward, having the monthly meetings, I'm trying to join these calls to give regular updates

Darius K: Trust & Safety TF is likely moving meetings to Wednesdays (every 2 weeks), still deciding on exact hour.

Lisa D: Portability TF - we met in July, I've separately been catching up with Emelia over email to talk about OAuth2 / authorization for portability, I have some new reading to do (Mastodon's Fediverse Aux. Service Provider specs https://github.com/mastodon/fediverse_auxiliary_service_provider_specifications ). Account Portability testbed implementation by Lisa and crew is in progress.

## Main Agenda

Dmitri: Evan brought up the ongoing thread over at https://socialhub.activitypub.rocks/t/socialhub-developer-community-reboot-or-shutdown/5445/36

Darius: I would like to hear what Julian / the Threaded Discussions TF would have to say about this

Dmitri: If you don't mind, start a SWICG mailing list thread about it, tag Julian

Ryan Barrett: I'm about to start a small Web Monetization API project (I know there's a FEP for it). WG starting up about it in the ATProto community. 

Juan: Is there a first call scheduled?

Ryan B: Not yet, just gathering interested folks for now

Ryan B: Also, we're launching the migration tool we mentioned at FediForum, https://bounce.anew.social/
Lisa, let's talk, to see if LOLA would make sense to implement here.
